The weirdest thing was
I knew that from a credibility
standpoint because X3 looks very
different than regular training.
A [clears throat] lot of people have
been saying it was no way it could work
or it doesn't do anything or nothing
will be better than weights.
Whatever, you know, like I think it's
really funny when
about anything so is that closed-minded.
It's like you do realize that
like at some point somebody rolled down
the street with the first car and
everybody's like, "Yeah, it won't only
put gasoline in my horse." And they were
like, "Yeah, it's not the car was
ridiculous." Well, how many people
arrived here today on a horse? [__]
zero.
So, you know, I mean, better things do
come along. You see, you got to pay
attention.
And so, I I see variable resistance as
vastly superior especially
from the perspective of I'm not a
generic algorithm.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We've got two
two different origin stories.
Both of which start in the garage. Both
of which start essentially out of
passion and a search for better ways to
do things and a a search for
improvement.
And both end up
both end up intersecting at variable
resistance at some of these fundamental
things within the strategy. Now,
with the X3 Westside program coming out
coming to you guys very, very soon. I'm
curious. I'd like to hit both of you
guys with this as almost a note to end
on. And that's how you've benefited or
how you utilize
what is coming from this connection. So,
Tom, we'll be asking you obviously with
the idea of having X3 as a tool.
I'm going to ask John to say like this
is a tool that strength coaches can take
advantage of or obviously
hundreds of thousands of people can take
advantage of for better results. I'm
curious about your perspective there.
And then doc, to be honest, I'd like to
end up asking you in terms of some of
the ideas from Westside.
How you see that coming to benefit the
X3 users?
Um but Tom, if you're good with it, I'd
love to start over here.
If you grant me a little few minutes to
kind of
give some sort of back story into
variable resistance into here, which
will lead into answering your question.
Um Dick Hartzell
through uh a coach Dave Williams
put resistance bands in Louie's
forefront. And then he went to a clinic
and like, I must have these.
Then they put bands on everything. They
put them on bars, put them on machines.
They used too much bands, too little
bands. They really pioneered
>> [snorts]
>> um how resistance bands are worked
within
the resistance training world.
And from there, Louie was sold. Like
variable resistance is a huge part. It's
in our DNA. Now, we come from two
different worlds. Like our job
we want to make our athletes better.
And we'll do anything for that. We'll
try to fix that problem.
Um so we will use whatever tools are at
our disposal. And as I said, it's very
important
that if you look at a strength coach,
look at their toolbox of what they're
bringing with them. And band training
has always been in there since it was
brought in the '90s.
So we push forward and we use that for
accommodating resistance for speed work
primarily. But we started doing uh a lot
more joint work, especially for high rep
um extensions and leg curls to
um develop the connective tissue. And it
came from
some of the the big benchers and
powerlifters here. And I like for me, I
remember a gentleman called uh Sunny. He
was a big bencher.
And uh he was doing high high reps. He
was actually a uh
professional drag motorbike racer. I'm
not for sure what the term is, but it
was a pretty cool demographic that he
was in. And but his joints were so thick
and I'm like, "Oh, that's you don't
really see that nowadays, really thick
joints."
And they started adding mass, too. And
you're like, "Oh, but we didn't do it
for the mass, we did it for the joint
properties." Then the professional
athletes came in.
And their time and their structure is
way different. They don't have access to
here all the time cuz they travel all
around. If you're in the NFL,
you're here for 8 weeks, then you're
gone to OTAs, then you're back in.
So, we're like, "Well, we need some sort
of consistent training apparatus that
they can use, but they don't really need
a coach there with them. Once they know
the the fundamentals of it, it's going
to give carryover in a safe way."
And then that's where we came across
John's work. We're like, "Oh, this is
one
something that looks so simple
is to us is like genius cuz you can make
something really complicated, but to
make something simple that works takes a
lot longer than what people think.
And we started using a version of it and
then we got it and for our athletes,
we now have a traveling system to where
they can go with the X3. They can work
out in hotels, they can work out on the
go. When they got 15 minutes in between
events, they can do it.
And more so than that, we're pushing for
the warm-ups before events.
Uh right now, we find ourselves with
some of the best grapplers in the world.
And we have our grapplers cuz they can't
do this with straight weight. You can't
get a barbell with 135, lie down on the
floor, and try shrimp, and try brace.
That's just not going to work. But with
the X3, you can get in these rather
unique angles and have tension and load
coming to you. So, now you can generate
force mimicking
what you're going to do in your sport,
which is really SPP. Now, we're big on
GPP, but the SPP portion of that, we
never have access to train and X3 has
given us that. So, for those watching
who aren't familiar with those terms,
GPP is general physical preparedness.
It's generally being in shape. You're
building muscle overall. You're building
work capacity and fitness overall. SPP
is specific to a task. So, specific
strength in this case for grapplers or
for anyone with a particular goal.
And now our athletes are they're able to
put on muscle. They're able to develop
parts of their body when they're
traveling, which wasn't
an option. And from a coach's
perspective,
like one who works with athletes,
I don't worry about an issue of injury
happening cuz of negligence.
Because of the X3, you can actually do a
lot You can do a lot more stuff safely,
just like
partial range of motion or to failure.
You can actually do to failure
and keep coming down without worrying
about a barbell dropping. And maybe
because I'm here and you don't I don't
have trust issues or something, but if
you have spotters, they better be really
good if you're doing repetition to
failure.
And I see so many spotters outside of
here who will be looking over on their
phone,
like not paying attention to the
athlete.
>> girls. Yeah. Which but to where this it
just provides peace of mind and like
we've been working with variable
resistance since the '90s. So, like we
were sold on the tool. Like you have to
see this as a very important tool that
you have. We'll always have weights.
We'll always have that, but we'll always
have X3, too. Because why wouldn't I
have this very powerful tool at our
disposal that can travel anywhere they
go?
Dynamite.
Uh and Doc, similar but opposite
question. Is there a particular
aspect within the the Westside Westside
methodologies or some of the ideas that
has been most important to you?
Well, the the best thing was I mean, you
you and I were friends before this
experience. You had trained here and I a
uh
we met you know sorry we we met at a
fundraiser
for RFK actually and so
the
we started talking you mentioned
Westside and that was like X3 you're
like yeah I definitely know what that is
and
like I didn't realize
cuz I talked to other Westside athletes
before even I even talked to Mark Bell
about X3 and
he was a trainer here from period of
time and
his
focus is
like it's quite a bit different like
he's he's working on his podcast he's
working on health as athletes age like
he's just not
in the place where his head is like okay
I want to get people as strong as
possible and he had that phase of life
and I and I think now he just sort of
looks at it and
it doesn't necessarily resonate with
what he's doing so I I never really met
the right person and then when when we
started talking I was like man it's a
shame
Craig's not working at Westside and then
so it was like 6 months later you're
like dude I'm going back to Westside
with the end of it vacation and then I'm
like great like how about we work
together with X3 and you were already
thinking that
and the weirdest thing was
I knew that from a credibility
standpoint because X3 looks very
different than regular training
a lot of people have been saying it was
no way it would work or it doesn't do
anything or nothing will ever be better
than weights
whatever you know like I think it's
really funny when
about anything so is that close-minded
it's like you do realize that
like at some point somebody rolled down
the street with the first car and
everybody's like yeah well I don't know
when they put gasoline in my horse and
you know like it's not the car was
ridiculous. Well, how many people
arrived here today on a bus? [__]
zero. So, you know, I mean, better
things do come along. You just need to
be able to pay attention.
And so, I I see variable resistance as
vastly superior, especially
from the perspective of I'm not a
genetic outlier. I'm probably one of the
few people who have been exposed like
who wasn't really born to be strong.
Like, I was born to be not strong.
Uh because when I lift weights, nothing
happens. Like, I stimulate, nothing.
Volume training, nothing. Uh I have very
disadvantageous tendons,
uh where they connect. So, like, my
origin is my pectoral here. The
insertion is right at the top. Uh here
is bone, whereas most strength athletes
have an insertion that's further down
the bone. So, they have uh
just been advantaged. They basically
have a band inside their body that's
forcing their arm so it to go straight.
So, and I knew that 99% of the
population is like me. It's not like
those genetic outliers who grip
strength. So, uh we're we're at Build Up
Strength. We're at Build Up Muscle. So,
uh uh I knew
that when we all got together, I was
like, "Man, I hope they really like the
way that this thing works because
all of the answers I came up with were
based on research, not working
backwards.
And
you guys
dumb bucks and so, I was like, uh you
know, they might not like some of the
weird things that they might feel like I
got like I have to change the shitty
videos wrong and we're going to have to
change that. I was pleasantly surprised
to find out that uh the standard
programming it wasn't full of errors.
And even some of the things that I was
doing were exactly the same thing that
you guys are showing people. And then of
course you showed me like 10 other ways
to use it which I had wouldn't have
thought of.
That is
probably a perfect high note. Yep.
With that in mind,
one, we've got a ton more content like
this coming as well as the X3 Westside
program where people can continue to
learn some of those things that you're
alluding to. I'm I'm trying to catch the
doc before he he gives you too much of a
preview into those.
>> [laughter]
>> But we've we've got all of that coming,
but in the meantime, if you have
questions about some of the ideas we're
talking about, some of the things we're
doing, drop them below this video. We
can either answer them in the comments
or for bigger questions, they'll be a
topic that you see a video on in the
future. Um but speaking solely for
myself, I'm very excited about where
this is going and I'm excited about the
results you guys are going to see from
it. Uh any final notes?
>> Gentlemen,
it's an honor and pleasure. Good. Yeah,
it's an honor.
Double catch you in the next one.
>> [music]
>> If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights.
>> [music]
>> We've got the answer for you.